README.md, before:

Builder
=======

Scripts to support builds for several branches, configurations, bitness.  
Works only with bash.

Usage :

    cd <sources root> # will define $builder_shared_dir
    . <builder path>scripts/setenv <build path>  # will define $builder_config_dir

where  
\<sources root\> is the root directory of the sources.  
\<build path\> is <[path]target[.branch]/d1/d2/.../system-arch/compiler/config>  

For real examples, see:

- [Build Executor][build_executor] (instructions to build Executor from scratch)
- [Build ooRexx][build_oorexx] (the infrastructure I use for Official trunk/releases/branches, Executor)
- [Build Regina][build_regina]


Cross-compilation
-----------------

From host Windows 11 arm64 (see [setenv-cl.bat][setenv-cl.bat]):
- x86_32
- x86_64


Other platforms: not tested but will work if the right toolchain is installed.


Builder scripts
---------------

Each directory in the build path can have a corresponding script.  
The scripts/setenv script iterates over each directory, from deeper to root.  
If a script named setenv-"directory" exists in the directory of scripts then execute it.  
If a script named setenv-"directory" exists in the directory of private scripts then execute it.  

    /local/rexxlocal/oorexx/build/official/main/trunk/linux-x86_64/gcc/release/
    Scripts currently defined :
    |  setenv-release
    |  setenv-build
    V  setenv-oorexx


    Examples of variables set by scripts/setenv (values for linux):
    builder_arch                x86_64
    builder_bitness             64
    builder_branch
    builder_build_dir           /local/rexxlocal/oorexx/build/official/main/trunk/linux-x86_64/gcc/release/build
    builder_compiler            gcc
    builder_config              release
    builder_config_dir          /local/rexxlocal/oorexx/build/official/main/trunk/linux-x86_64/gcc/release
    builder_delivery_dir        /local/rexxlocal/oorexx/build/official/main/trunk/linux-x86_64/gcc/release/deliver
    builder_local_build_dir     /local/rexxlocal/oorexx/build
    builder_local_dir           /local/rexxlocal/oorexx
    builder_scripts_dir         /local/builder/scripts
    builder_shared_dir          /local/rexx/oorexx
    builder_src_relative_path   main/trunk
    builder_system              linux
    builder_system_arch         linux-x86_64
    builder_target              official
    builder_target_branch       official

    Variables set for building with cmake:
    CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE            Debug or Reldbg or Release

    Variables set for building with gcc or clang:
    C_INCLUDE_PATH              List of directories in which to look for header files when preprocessing C files
    CPLUS_INCLUDE_PATH          List of directories in which to look for header files when preprocessing C++ files
    LIBRARY_PATH                List of directories in which to look for libraries when linking

    Variables set for default make rules (see the output of make -p):
    CXXFLAGS                    Flags for the C++ compiler
    CFLAGS                      Flags for the C compiler
    CPPFLAGS                    Flags for the preprocessor
    LDFLAGS                     Flags for the linker

    Variables set for building with cl (Visual C++):
    INCLUDE                     List of directories in which to look for header files when preprocessing files
    LIB                         List of directories in which to look for libraries when linking

    Variables set for default nmake rules (see the output of nmake /p):
    CXXFLAGS                    Flags used when compiling .cxx files
    CFLAGS                      Flags used when compiling .c or .cc files
    CPPFLAGS                    Flags used when compiling .cpp files

    Variables set for execution:
    DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH           MacOsX
    LD_LIBRARY_PATH             Linux
    PATH                        Linux, MacOsX, Windows


[configure-smbd-to-follow-symbolic-links]: http://superuser.com/questions/555715/mac-os-x-10-8-configure-smbd-to-follow-symbolic-links "Configure smbd to follow symbolic links"
[build_executor]: build-executor.txt "Build Executor"
[build_oorexx]: build-oorexx.txt "Build ooRexx"
[build_regina]: build-regina.txt "Build Regina"
[setenv-cl.bat]: https://github.com/jlfaucher/builder/blob/master/scripts/setenv-cl.bat "setenv-cl.bat"

Commit message:

Windows: the scripts work only with cmd.

README.md, after:

Builder
=======

Scripts to support builds for several branches, configurations, bitness.  
Works only with bash (MacOS & Linux) or cmd (Windows).

Usage :

    cd <sources root> # will define $builder_shared_dir
    . <builder path>scripts/setenv <build path>  # will define $builder_config_dir

where  
\<sources root\> is the root directory of the sources.  
\<build path\> is <[path]target[.branch]/d1/d2/.../system-arch/compiler/config>  

For real examples, see:

- [Build Executor][build_executor] (instructions to build Executor from scratch)
- [Build ooRexx][build_oorexx] (the infrastructure I use for Official trunk/releases/branches, Executor)
- [Build Regina][build_regina]


Cross-compilation
-----------------

From host Windows 11 arm64 (see [setenv-cl.bat][setenv-cl.bat]):
- x86_32
- x86_64


Other platforms: not tested but will work if the right toolchain is installed.


Builder scripts
---------------

Each directory in the build path can have a corresponding script.  
The scripts/setenv script iterates over each directory, from deeper to root.  
If a script named setenv-"directory" exists in the directory of scripts then execute it.  
If a script named setenv-"directory" exists in the directory of private scripts then execute it.  

    /local/rexxlocal/oorexx/build/official/main/trunk/linux-x86_64/gcc/release/
    Scripts currently defined :
    |  setenv-release
    |  setenv-build
    V  setenv-oorexx


    Examples of variables set by scripts/setenv (values for linux):
    builder_arch                x86_64
    builder_bitness             64
    builder_branch
    builder_build_dir           /local/rexxlocal/oorexx/build/official/main/trunk/linux-x86_64/gcc/release/build
    builder_compiler            gcc
    builder_config              release
    builder_config_dir          /local/rexxlocal/oorexx/build/official/main/trunk/linux-x86_64/gcc/release
    builder_delivery_dir        /local/rexxlocal/oorexx/build/official/main/trunk/linux-x86_64/gcc/release/deliver
    builder_local_build_dir     /local/rexxlocal/oorexx/build
    builder_local_dir           /local/rexxlocal/oorexx
    builder_scripts_dir         /local/builder/scripts
    builder_shared_dir          /local/rexx/oorexx
    builder_src_relative_path   main/trunk
    builder_system              linux
    builder_system_arch         linux-x86_64
    builder_target              official
    builder_target_branch       official

    Variables set for building with cmake:
    CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE            Debug or Reldbg or Release

    Variables set for building with gcc or clang:
    C_INCLUDE_PATH              List of directories in which to look for header files when preprocessing C files
    CPLUS_INCLUDE_PATH          List of directories in which to look for header files when preprocessing C++ files
    LIBRARY_PATH                List of directories in which to look for libraries when linking

    Variables set for default make rules (see the output of make -p):
    CXXFLAGS                    Flags for the C++ compiler
    CFLAGS                      Flags for the C compiler
    CPPFLAGS                    Flags for the preprocessor
    LDFLAGS                     Flags for the linker

    Variables set for building with cl (Visual C++):
    INCLUDE                     List of directories in which to look for header files when preprocessing files
    LIB                         List of directories in which to look for libraries when linking

    Variables set for default nmake rules (see the output of nmake /p):
    CXXFLAGS                    Flags used when compiling .cxx files
    CFLAGS                      Flags used when compiling .c or .cc files
    CPPFLAGS                    Flags used when compiling .cpp files

    Variables set for execution:
    DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH           MacOsX
    LD_LIBRARY_PATH             Linux
    PATH                        Linux, MacOsX, Windows


[configure-smbd-to-follow-symbolic-links]: http://superuser.com/questions/555715/mac-os-x-10-8-configure-smbd-to-follow-symbolic-links "Configure smbd to follow symbolic links"
[build_executor]: build-executor.txt "Build Executor"
[build_oorexx]: build-oorexx.txt "Build ooRexx"
[build_regina]: build-regina.txt "Build Regina"
[setenv-cl.bat]: https://github.com/jlfaucher/builder/blob/master/scripts/setenv-cl.bat "setenv-cl.bat"
